I don't know if you can see how much
it's raining on camera winter it's
raining a lot
in 1988 Jimmy Carter and Bill Drummond
wrote the manual or how to have a number
one the easy way they'd had a novelty
pop song hit the top of the charts
earlier that year and the manual I've
had to plastic wrap my copy it's a bit
rainy was a tongue-in-cheek guide to
success in the music industry it was
held to achieve a number-one single with
no money and no musical talent now
almost all of it is out of date now but
there's one section right at the start
that is as relevant today as the day it
was written and it's trying to talk the
reader out of what they think they want
and it says the majority of number ones
are achieved early on in the artist
public career before they've been able
to establish reputations and build a
solid fan base most artists are never
able to recover from having one and it
becomes the millstone around their necks
to which all subsequent releases are
compared either the artist will be
destroyed in their attempt to prove to
the world that there are other facets to
their creativity or they succumb
willingly and spend the rest of their
lives as a traveling freak show a number
one song does not make a career in fact
it can kill a career all you're known
for is doing one thing all the world
will want to see is that one thing a
single popular video does not make you a
YouTube star it makes you the person who
stands up and repeats that catchphrase
over and over again until everyone's
tired of it there are people out there
who think just one big hit that's all
they need that's the path to stardom and
being set for life they were wrong
thirty years ago and they're wrong now
if you're a one-hit wonder then it's not
you that's popular it's that one hit
what you need is a steady build and back
catalogue enough time to learn the
skills that you need to survive under
the spotlight to have long-term
sustainable success if you've been
tasked by a boss to make something
popular or if you've had that one hit
and now you need the second that is a
terrible environment to be creative in
do you sit round with a committee and
you ask what's what's funny what's good
what's popular what can we make what
would people be interested in then you
are already on the wrong track but you
know that idea you had when you're in
the shower or in the pub with friends or
just letting your mind wander on a rainy
Beach today that idea might be good your
brain is an index so you can say think
of something popular your brain drive
or connections and it is way more
difficult to make those connections when
your job depends but for me it took more
than a decade of throwing stuff at the
Internet of steadily building up a small
following and learning my trade before I
found the things you might not know
format an idea that really worked an
idea that got me a large audience and a
chance to actually turn this into
something that could support me by sheer
luck that happened at the point where
I've been working somewhere long enough
to build up some savings so I wouldn't
be completely bankrupt if this new shiny
YouTube idea didn't work out long term
there's a reason that a lot of people
who make stuff for online platforms are
either kids supported by the parents or
students with a lot of time on their
hands or folks who have the means to
support themselves and even if you are
one of the lucky ones if your project
starts bringing in some money you're
lucky enough to have the budget to be
able to book a last minute sleeper train
ticket to travel to a remote rain-swept
Scottish island because it makes a
better background for your video if it
still end at any time you can get ill or
your audience could get bored actually
your audience they will get bored at
some point there are some folks out
there mostly still teenagers with
millions of people already following
them and money rolling in and they think
this is gonna last forever but every
band's second album is difficult and
every TV show starts to lose ratings
over time as newer things come along the
internet works the same way the new
stuff doesn't necessarily have to be
better it just has to be exciting people
like to have both familiarity and
novelty but there's gotta be both too
much familiarity is boring too much
novelty is scary if you don't strike a
balance if you can't change with the
times someone else will be ready and
willing to take your audience for almost
every creator making stuff for the
internet the world they do is a passion
project so if you're starting out you
should know it isn't better support me
for the first few years perhaps the
person for the first few decades perhaps
ever and if you're one of the lucky ones
if you've made it very likely won't
support you for life I mean if this is a
passion project you probably won't care
about that as long as you know that as
long as you plan for it that's fine but
you'll have seen all the creators and
every genre on YouTube talking about
burn up your dream job can still be a
nightmare if you don't have a backup in
1994 six years after they wrote
Jimmy corty and bill Drummond pulled all
their music to the sale it went to the
bank and they withdrew most of the money
that they had left over from sales and
royalties both from the novelty number
one single and from all the other they'd
had since then they had 1 million pounds
in cash they traveled to this island
Durer in Scotland they went to an
abandoned boathouse couple miles down
the coast and they burned all of that
million pounds cash as art now I'm not
about to do anything like that I
wouldn't recommend doing anything like
that I don't think they would these days
either but I'm well aware that nothing
lasts forever if all you're trying to do
is repeat your one success or if all
you're doing is trying the same thing
over and over and over and over and over
again for years you'll get nothing back
then you might as well just be throwing
your money in a fire so these days I
hope that my ideas work I tried to
accept when they don't and I try out new
things until my baseline is different
when I was starting out the same way
it's different that the massive
corporation you might spend millions on
one advert but the principles are the
same I keep following all those moves
that I've learned I make as many things
as possible and I try to connect with
people you're starting out success might
take a week might take a month it might
take a century but every idea you put
out there is another roll of the dice
and you can learn from however those
dice form that's how you get popular
good enough how is that rain falling
gentlemen the back of my neck all right
I got to go catch a ferry back away
catch a ferry
[Music]